# ServiceName Runbook

- TODO: Adjust this template to meet your needs, removing sections/TODOs that don't make sense/etc and publish it internally
- TODO: set this up for all services in a consistenly discoverable way
- TODO: Work through todos over time, getting something started is more valuble than taking a long time to complete everything
- TODO: Populate metadata fields, include useful direct links to any system which has information about this service(logging/dashboards)

| key         | value                        |
| ----------- | ---------------------------- |
| owner       | team_link_or_name            |
| repo        | repository_link              |
| slack       | #public_slack_channel        |
| request_log | kibana_request_log_link      |
| dashboard   | grafana_dashboard_link       |
| builds      | list_of_ci_builds_link       |
| deploys     | history_of_deploys_link      |
| monitors    | alerting_and_monitoring_link |
| exceptions  | sentry/honeybadger_link      |

## Overview

The overview section should exist in the root README.md of the service repo whenever possible. Link to that README instead of populating it here and then modify the README to link back to this service runbook.

- TODO: Write an overview paragraph of the service, explain what this service is and why we have it. Add links to relevant design docs.

### Setup

- TODO: Write instructions for getting a dev environment setup.

### Contributing

- TODO: Instructions for contributing to the service.

### Tech Stack

- TODO: document key tech stack dependencies
- TODO: document language(s)
- TODO: document framework(s)
- TODO: document database(s)

### Configuration

- TODO: document important configuration options

### Deploy

- TODO: Instructions for deploying the service. There are a lot of conditional branches in deploying and a general purpose deploy script isn't the best solution here. I propose we actively duplicate deploy steps for each service with complete specificity. Regular deployers of this service won't need it, but it is huge for onboarding and infrequent users. What is the service name in admin? Do we have shared dev steps? Canary activation? Specific canary testing practices? Channels to alert?

## Maintenance

### Tasks

NOTE: These tasks should potentially be links to separate task runbooks, but start here first before extracting as needed

- TODO: Instructions for completing common tasks
- TODO: document common curl commands/test recipes
- TODO: document commonly repeated changes like adding a new x

### Alerts

This section can potentially grow to a point where it is valuable to extract an Alert Runbook

- TODO: Document a general escalation policy for alerts and how to alert the on call engineers
- TODO: List each known alert with a TODO to document it
- TODO: Go through each listed alert and start documenting it
- TODO: Document what it is/why it happens/potential causes/steps to respond to it

**Alert Name**

- TODO: Document when this alert occurs.
- TODO: Link to monitors/sources for this alert.
- TODO: List potential causes for this alert, where/what to check, and steps to remediate.

### Monitoring / Logging

- TODO: Document current monitoring/logging capabilities
- TODO: link to dashboard and any other relevant grafana links
- TODO: explain the graphs
- TODO: link to kibana
- TODO: document useful/common kibana queries for this service

## Design

### API

- TODO: Document the API of the service

### Data

- TODO: Overview of the data stored in the service
- TODO: link to relevant DB schema file(s)
- TODO: link to relevant data dictionary

### Architecture

- TODO: Overview of the architecture
- TODO: document high level architecture and place in the overall system
- TODO: document important or complex lower level flows with sequence diagrams
- TODO: document any specific design/architectural patterns and link to decision records
