# Growth Mission Development

## Goal

Develop a personal growth mission statement and add it to your current Growth Plan.

## Introduction

This guide will help you develop your growth mission statement.

A growth mission statement reflects what you want from your career and personal growth. Think about what you want from a growth perspective. To drive focus, scope your mission to a single year.

- Are you seeking a promotion?
- Do you want to improve any specific skills?
- Do you have gaps you want to fill?

Try these exercises out.

- Imagine being congratulated on something you accomplished in six months; what would you want that to be?
- Imagine someone you work with today recognizes and comments on a positive change in your skills or behavior in one year, something you've improved at. What would that be?
- Imagine an announcement about a new role you will fill. What would that ideally be? A promotion? Becoming a manager? An architect? A project lead?

## My Growth Mission

TODO: Define a growth mission as an engineering leader and share it as an example in this guide.

Below is my growth mission for 2023, which I'm sharing as an example. I want to be better at everything, but I'm particularly focused on picking up more of our tech stack, being a better leader and communicator, and enabling the team. You'll also see consistency with the delivery, development, and direction themes.

> I want to develop further as an engineer, leader, and peer and get promoted to Senior Engineering Manager. I want to increase my knowledge of our tech stack, become a better communicator, and enable others to grow and succeed. I want my team to significantly impact the organization through delivering real customer value, influencing the technical direction, and developing as individuals.

## Growth Mission Examples

Here are several other artificial examples of growth missions that cover a variety of potential growth interests.

This mission is from a developer who wants to improve at testing, learn more languages, and improve system design.

> I want to improve as an engineer by building upon my strengths and filling my knowledge gaps. I want to better understand software testing, become a polyglot developer, and improve my ability to design technical solutions.

This mission is from a developer who wants to be promoted and gain more technical leadership skills.

> I want to be promoted to Senior Software Engineer and gain more experience designing and leading technical projects.

This mission is from a developer who wants to continue to grow as a senior engineer and influence the broader organization more.

> I want to design and create new technical solutions and become more involved in driving the organization's technical direction.

This mission is from an engineering manager who wants to increase their impact on their team and the organization.

> I want to continue to grow as a leader, coach, and team member. I want to enable everyone around me to be more successful, grow in their careers, and better support each other. I want to increase my impact and grow my organizational influence.
